README.md, before:

# SkillLedger - Career Growth Platform

A comprehensive web application for tracking, verifying, and showcasing student internships and professional experiences.

## Features

### For Students
- Log and manage internship experiences
- Upload certificates and proof documents
- Track verification status in real-time
- Build and manage skill portfolio
- Apply to company internship postings
- Share verified experiences on public feed
- Like and comment on peer experiences

### For Mentors
- View assigned students
- Review and verify student internships
- Provide ratings (1-5) and feedback comments
- Approve or reject submissions
- Track verification history

### For Administrators
- User management (Students, Mentors, Companies)
- Analytics dashboard with skill trends
- Department-wise internship distribution
- Mentor performance statistics
- Company verification and management
- Skills catalog management

### For Companies
- Create and manage internship postings
- Review student applications
- Track application status
- Update application workflow

### Platform Features
- **Verification Ledger**: Blockchain-like tamper-proof ledger with SHA-256 hash chaining
- **Public Feed**: Social platform for sharing verified experiences
- **Role-based Access Control**: Separate dashboards for each user type
- **Analytics Dashboard**: Comprehensive insights into skills and trends

## Technology Stack

- **Backend**: Flask (Python)
- **Database**: PostgreSQL with skillledger schema
- **ORM**: SQLAlchemy
- **Authentication**: Flask-Login with password hashing
- **Frontend**: Bootstrap 5, Bootstrap Icons
- **Security**: SHA-256 hash chaining for verification ledger

## Database Schema

The application uses the existing `skillledger` schema in PostgreSQL with the following tables:
- Student, Mentor, Administrator, Company
- Skill, StudentSkill
- Internship, Verification, Certificate
- VerificationLedger (blockchain-like)
- InternshipPosting, Application
- Post, Comment, Like

## Installation

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.8+
- PostgreSQL 12+
- pip (Python package manager)

### Setup Steps

1. **Install Python dependencies**:
   ```powershell
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

2. **Configure Database**:
   - Ensure PostgreSQL is running on localhost:5432
   - Database: `postgres`
   - Username: `postgres`
   - Password: `123456789Az#`
   - The application uses the `skillledger` schema

3. **Environment Variables**:
   The `.env` file is already configured with:
   - DATABASE_URL
   - SECRET_KEY
   - FLASK_ENV

4. **Run the Application**:
   ```powershell
   python app.py
   ```

5. **Access the Application**:
   Open your browser and navigate to: `http://localhost:5000`

## Default Access

### Creating Admin Account
Administrators must be created directly in the database:

```sql
INSERT INTO skillledger.administrator (name, email, password_hash, role)
VALUES ('Admin User', 'admin@skillledger.com', 'hashed_password', 'ADMIN');
```

### Creating Mentor Account
Mentors can be created by administrators through the admin dashboard.

### Student & Company Registration
Students and Companies can register through the web interface at `/register`

## Usage Guide

### Student Workflow
1. Register as a student
2. Wait for admin to assign a mentor
3. Add internship experiences
4. Upload certificates
5. Submit for verification
6. Once verified, share on public feed
7. Apply to company postings

### Mentor Workflow
1. Log in with mentor credentials
2. View assigned students
3. Review pending verifications
4. Approve/Reject with ratings and comments
5. Verification automatically adds to blockchain ledger

### Admin Workflow
1. Log in with admin credentials
2. Manage users (Students, Mentors, Companies)
3. Assign mentors to students
4. Verify companies
5. View analytics dashboard
6. Manage skills catalog

### Company Workflow
1. Register as a company
2. Wait for admin verification
3. Create internship postings (only when verified)
4. Review student applications
5. Update application status

## Security Features

- Password hashing using Werkzeug
- Role-based access control
- Verification ledger with SHA-256 hash chaining
- Protected routes with login requirements
- Database triggers for data integrity

## API Routes Structure

### Authentication Routes (`/`)
- `/` - Home page
- `/login` - User login
- `/register` - Student/Company registration
- `/logout` - Logout

### Student Routes (`/student/`)
- `/dashboard` - Student dashboard
- `/internships` - View all internships
- `/internship/add` - Add new internship
- `/internship/<id>` - View internship details
- `/skills` - Manage skills
- `/postings` - Browse internship postings
- `/applications` - View applications

### Mentor Routes (`/mentor/`)
- `/dashboard` - Mentor dashboard
- `/students` - View assigned students
- `/verifications` - Pending verifications
- `/verification/<id>` - Review verification

### Admin Routes (`/admin/`)
- `/dashboard` - Admin dashboard
- `/analytics` - Analytics and insights
- `/students` - Manage students
- `/mentors` - Manage mentors
- `/companies` - Manage companies
- `/skills` - Manage skills catalog

### Company Routes (`/company/`)
- `/dashboard` - Company dashboard
- `/postings` - Manage postings
- `/posting/add` - Create new posting
- `/applications` - View applications

### Feed Routes (`/feed/`)
- `/` - Public feed
- `/post/create/<internship_id>` - Create post
- `/post/<id>` - View post details
- `/my-posts` - Student's posts

## Database Triggers

The application relies on PostgreSQL triggers defined in the schema:
- Auto-sync internship status from verification
- Prevent posts on unverified internships
- Company verification gate for postings
- Verification ledger hash chaining

## Project Structure

```
skillledger/
├── app.py                 # Main application file
├── config.py              # Configuration settings
├── models.py              # SQLAlchemy models
├── requirements.txt       # Python dependencies
├── .env                   # Environment variables
├── routes/
│   ├── auth.py           # Authentication routes
│   ├── student.py        # Student routes
│   ├── mentor.py         # Mentor routes
│   ├── admin.py          # Admin routes
│   ├── company.py        # Company routes
│   └── feed.py           # Feed routes
├── templates/
│   ├── base.html         # Base template
│   ├── index.html        # Home page
│   ├── login.html        # Login page
│   ├── register.html     # Registration page
│   ├── student/          # Student templates
│   ├── mentor/           # Mentor templates
│   ├── admin/            # Admin templates
│   ├── company/          # Company templates
│   └── feed/             # Feed templates
└── skillledger_phase2_ddl.sql  # Database schema

```

Commit message:

Enhance README with detailed project description and setup
Expanded the README to provide a detailed overview of SkillLedger's features, architecture, and setup instructions, including database configuration and environment variables.

README.md, after:

# SkillLedger - Career Growth Platform

SkillLedger is a full-stack, database-driven career verification platform designed for academic institutions to manage and validate student internships, skills, and applications across multiple user roles.
Built with PostgreSQL, it uses a structured relational schema, role-based access control, and a blockchain-inspired SHA-256 verification ledger to ensure data integrity and trust. The platform supports end-to-end workflows for students, mentors, administrators, and companies, backed by analytics and secure authentication.

## Why SkillLedger?

Internship experiences and skills are often fragmented across resumes, PDFs, and unverified claims, making it difficult for recruiters, mentors, and institutions to assess credibility. SkillLedger was built to solve this trust gap.

- **Verified over self-reported**: Internship records are reviewed by assigned mentors and stored in a tamper-resistant verification ledger, ensuring authenticity and accountability.
- **End-to-end visibility**: Students, mentors, administrators, and companies operate on a single platform with clearly defined, role-based workflows.
- **Database-first system design**: A normalized PostgreSQL schema, triggers, and relational constraints enforce data integrity beyond application logic.
- **Security and integrity by design**: Role-based access control, hashed credentials, and a SHA-256 ledger prevent unauthorized actions and retroactive data manipulation.
- **Actionable insights**: Built-in analytics expose skill trends, mentor activity, and internship distribution to support data-driven decisions.

SkillLedger is designed as a production-style system that prioritizes trust, data integrity, and scalable workflow management over simple CRUD functionality.

## Features

### For Students
- Log and manage internship experiences
- Upload certificates and proof documents
- Track verification status in real-time
- Build and manage skill portfolio
- Apply to company internship postings
- Share verified experiences on public feed
- Like and comment on peer experiences

### For Mentors
- View assigned students
- Review and verify student internships
- Provide ratings (1-5) and feedback comments
- Approve or reject submissions
- Track verification history

### For Administrators
- User management (Students, Mentors, Companies)
- Analytics dashboard with skill trends
- Department-wise internship distribution
- Mentor performance statistics
- Company verification and management
- Skills catalog management

### For Companies
- Create and manage internship postings
- Review student applications
- Track application status
- Update application workflow

### Platform Features
- **Verification Ledger**: Blockchain-like tamper-proof ledger with SHA-256 hash chaining
- **Public Feed**: Social platform for sharing verified experiences
- **Role-based Access Control**: Separate dashboards for each user type
- **Analytics Dashboard**: Comprehensive insights into skills and trends

## Technology Stack

- **Backend**: Flask (Python)
- **Database**: PostgreSQL with skillledger schema
- **ORM**: SQLAlchemy
- **Authentication**: Flask-Login with password hashing
- **Frontend**: Bootstrap 5, Bootstrap Icons
- **Security**: SHA-256 hash chaining for verification ledger

## Database Schema

The application uses the existing `skillledger` schema in PostgreSQL with the following tables:
- Student, Mentor, Administrator, Company
- Skill, StudentSkill
- Internship, Verification, Certificate
- VerificationLedger (blockchain-like)
- InternshipPosting, Application
- Post, Comment, Like

## Installation

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.8+
- PostgreSQL 12+
- pip (Python package manager)

### Setup Steps

1. **Install Python dependencies**:
   ```powershell
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

2. **Configure Database**:
   - Ensure PostgreSQL is running on `localhost:5432`
   - Create a database (e.g. `postgres` or your own custom DB)
   - Create the `skillledger` schema using the provided SQL file
   - Configure database credentials via environment variables

3. **Environment Variables**:
   The `.env` file is already configured with:
   - DATABASE_URL
   - SECRET_KEY
   - FLASK_ENV

4. **Run the Application**:
   ```powershell
   python app.py
   ```

5. **Access the Application**:
   Open your browser and navigate to: `http://localhost:5000`

## Default Access

### Creating Admin Account
Administrators must be created directly in the database:

```sql
INSERT INTO skillledger.administrator (name, email, password_hash, role)
VALUES ('Admin User', 'admin@skillledger.com', 'hashed_password', 'ADMIN');
```

### Creating Mentor Account
Mentors can be created by administrators through the admin dashboard.

### Student & Company Registration
Students and Companies can register through the web interface at `/register`

## Usage Guide

### Student Workflow
1. Register as a student
2. Wait for admin to assign a mentor
3. Add internship experiences
4. Upload certificates
5. Submit for verification
6. Once verified, share on public feed
7. Apply to company postings

### Mentor Workflow
1. Log in with mentor credentials
2. View assigned students
3. Review pending verifications
4. Approve/Reject with ratings and comments
5. Verification automatically adds to blockchain ledger

### Admin Workflow
1. Log in with admin credentials
2. Manage users (Students, Mentors, Companies)
3. Assign mentors to students
4. Verify companies
5. View analytics dashboard
6. Manage skills catalog

### Company Workflow
1. Register as a company
2. Wait for admin verification
3. Create internship postings (only when verified)
4. Review student applications
5. Update application status

## Security Features

- Password hashing using Werkzeug
- Role-based access control
- Verification ledger with SHA-256 hash chaining
- Protected routes with login requirements
- Database triggers for data integrity

## API Routes Structure

### Authentication Routes (`/`)
- `/` - Home page
- `/login` - User login
- `/register` - Student/Company registration
- `/logout` - Logout

### Student Routes (`/student/`)
- `/dashboard` - Student dashboard
- `/internships` - View all internships
- `/internship/add` - Add new internship
- `/internship/<id>` - View internship details
- `/skills` - Manage skills
- `/postings` - Browse internship postings
- `/applications` - View applications

### Mentor Routes (`/mentor/`)
- `/dashboard` - Mentor dashboard
- `/students` - View assigned students
- `/verifications` - Pending verifications
- `/verification/<id>` - Review verification

### Admin Routes (`/admin/`)
- `/dashboard` - Admin dashboard
- `/analytics` - Analytics and insights
- `/students` - Manage students
- `/mentors` - Manage mentors
- `/companies` - Manage companies
- `/skills` - Manage skills catalog

### Company Routes (`/company/`)
- `/dashboard` - Company dashboard
- `/postings` - Manage postings
- `/posting/add` - Create new posting
- `/applications` - View applications

### Feed Routes (`/feed/`)
- `/` - Public feed
- `/post/create/<internship_id>` - Create post
- `/post/<id>` - View post details
- `/my-posts` - Student's posts

## Database Triggers

The application relies on PostgreSQL triggers defined in the schema:
- Auto-sync internship status from verification
- Prevent posts on unverified internships
- Company verification gate for postings
- Verification ledger hash chaining

## Project Structure

```
skillledger/
├── app.py                 # Main application file
├── config.py              # Configuration settings
├── models.py              # SQLAlchemy models
├── requirements.txt       # Python dependencies
├── .env                   # Environment variables
├── routes/
│   ├── auth.py           # Authentication routes
│   ├── student.py        # Student routes
│   ├── mentor.py         # Mentor routes
│   ├── admin.py          # Admin routes
│   ├── company.py        # Company routes
│   └── feed.py           # Feed routes
├── templates/
│   ├── base.html         # Base template
│   ├── index.html        # Home page
│   ├── login.html        # Login page
│   ├── register.html     # Registration page
│   ├── student/          # Student templates
│   ├── mentor/           # Mentor templates
│   ├── admin/            # Admin templates
│   ├── company/          # Company templates
│   └── feed/             # Feed templates
└── skillledger_phase2_ddl.sql  # Database schema

```
